China – Wela’s Memory Dump
Posted on: January 6, 2016
Mainland

It’s China, the motherland. There’s so much and so little to say. My heart has always been in Shanghai and the city is just getting better and better every year. This time even Ethan fell in love. Thanks Kath for showing him and all our guests the beauty of our hometown!
We had a hectic week of wedding planning in Shanghai before our guests arrived. The Jianguo Hotel, Cool Docks and Kartel really delivered for us. As did Ping Cheng Wu (Japanese Itzakaya) and Zhi Wei Guan in Hangzhou. Eat your heart out peoples!
Beijing was still as loathsome as ever. Horribly rude cab drivers that just drop you in the middle of nowhere (sorry Kimbo!) and air so polluted you can’t breathe. The only redeeming thing about Beijing is the epic historical sites and of course the duck. But you can get  that same duck in Markham at Chung King Garden. Amazing. Jacques, Clara and Ethan and I once ate two full ducks – three courses each, six courses total. Bless the day Dee Dee and I found this place so randomly! We thought the duck skin had cocaine in it – it was so crispy.
Yangshuo was SO WONDERFUL. The natural beauty was unparalleled. Aside from the episode where we thought Alice was kidnapped because she lost her phone and we couldn’t find her for like two days, the rest of Yangshuo was so fun. We climbed the TV tower, we floated down the Yu Long river on bamboo rafts, we ate really spicy Guangxi food and we visited hundred year old villages. We biked around and rode scooters and we ambled about the cute town center of Yangshuo. You can literally spend a month in this area ambling about enjoying the food and mountain scenery. With calls for a 5 year wedding vow renewal, we already spotted some swanky hotels that we could stay in and have our friends come join us at! This area was magical. Now if only they can decrease the smogginess.
We met a lady who was 90 years old in an ancient village around the area. She showed us her home which was super old and run down and she even showed us the plaque that an emperor had award her family which she had to flip backwards and use s a cutting board during the cultural revolution so that it wouldn’t be confiscated. Incredible.
The evening cormorant fishing trip great – man can these birds fish. I did feel kind of badly for them but I guess they get the smaller fish, the ones that they can swallow despite the ring around their necks.
We ate mostly at a place we called “Uncle’s Place” because it was owned by the uncle of the co-owner of the Riverside Dragon Hostel we stayed at. The place is actually called Long Men Nin Xiang Non Jia Fan (dragon door fragrant country cooking). The owners were so very sweet and the food was so very plentiful and yummy.
China is not cheap to travel in anymore. Things are pricey.
Put lots of bug spray on! Alice got bitten up SO BAD and so did we but Ethan doesn’t react so much and I sprayed myself. Even then the sand fly bites were SO itchy and ten times worse than mosquito bites and took like a month to heal. I suspect we got bitten on the bamboo rafting trip.
Always carry with you toilet paper everywhere in China. This is getting better but still a must. Good advice for all non first world countries.
Taiwan

Taipei felt like a very practical city where everything was really affordable. I am told the housing prices are like Hong Kong / Vancouver so aside from this huge downer, the rest was very organized. Taipei was like a more civilized mainland. People are unbelievably nice there. Like really really nice. They smile and bow a lot, probably from a legacy of the Japanese colonial times.
The small eats here were so great. We spent a lot of time just eating.
We didn’t do much by way of tourism – we didn’t feel like there were major sites to see though the Palace Museum is a must. All of the treasures that left China with the KMT and Chiang Kai-Shek. The strange thing was that every museum was called the National Museum. The actual National Museum – THE MUSEUM is really the Palace Museum. Don’t get confused and go to like two other not that great National Museums like we did!
Taipei felt very much like a less nice Singapore. Sorry to my Taiwanese friends! It’s just older. The buildings are older and kind of look like they’re from the 60s. What Taipei lacks in flashiness it does definitely make up with a sense of easy living. Again, the people are SO OVERLY NICE.
You can feel the Japanese influence. The thermal hot springs at Beitou were developed by the Japanese. We visited the area but didn’t partake in the pools. Lots of Japanese food available. I am told the Taiwanese are the only Asians who don’t hate the Japanese. This is because Japan actually tried to develop Formosa into a kind of Japanese paradise to showcase how benevolent it’s rule can be. Despite enforcing the teaching and mandatory speaking of Japanese at school, older Taiwanese people will still talk about the Japanese in a positive light.
Longshan Temple is well worth a visit. It is over the top ornate yet its visitors are just ordinary Taiwanese going about their day and taking a moment to pray to Buddha.
One of the funnest things we ended up doing in Taipei was to go shrimping. This was literally an open all night pool with live shrimps where you literally fish for shrimp. I didn’t catch any and Ethan caught two. Luckily some super nice locals took pity on us and gave us some of their extra shrimps so we had more than two to grill at the end of two hours. Yea.. shrimping isn’t our forte. Boy were the fresh grilled shrimp delicious though! Thanks to the random strangers who took pity so that we could have more than one shrimp a person to eat! Two hours flew by. You drink beer and eat sunflower seeds while trying to catch them. So great. Thanks for the pro-tip Daniel!
A must visit restaurant in Taipei is Hua Zhi Xun. The most delicious and inventive Japanese tapas ever!

-----

Italy – Wela’s Memory Dump
Posted on: January 6, 2016
Venice

As soon as we left the comforts of Anglo/Saxon Germany / Austria, we were thrust solidly back into the second world when we arrived in Venice.
Italy is much dirtier than it’s northern neighbours. Not surprised. Ethan encountered a train strike on his way into Venice on the first day. Welcome to Italy! The driver seems to have just walked off the job. There were still other trains to take but there you have it. On Strike!
The touristy parts of Venice is insufferable. But like the redlight district in Amsterdam (where everyone is wall to wall), if you venture even a couple of steps away, it is a different world (Chinatown in the case of Amsterdam which is just one street over from the redlight district) and away from the grand canal in Venice.
Northern Italians weren’t all that friendly, especially people in Venice. I guess you can’t blame them when their entire country is constantly overrun with tourists. Literally black friday overrun. Everywhere.
Two very memorable meals in Venice – again no restaurant names but they are away from the tourist areas in Venice. Sorry, I suck. But definitely have the little crostini toasts with various spreads and cured meats on it!
It’s definitely a great place to visit as tourist – its Venice! but really you should plan to spend a lot of money to stay somewhere nice and also to go to a masquerade ball. The buildings are gorgeous and we saw a swanky ball going on where guests arrived by boat. Wouldn’t that be fabulous?!
Take the public transit boats and go around the islands for cheap! This was definitely a highlight. People literally take these boats as commuter boats. There are some seats for tourists at the front if you want to take photos.
Venice by night is SO GORGEOUS. Be warned, this Italy post will feature a lot of SO GORGEOUS statements.
Bologna

We didn’t make the most of Bologna. We came here to eat and ended up cooking a lot. We didn’t find our eating groove until the last night when we finally found this amazing street (near Via Clavature) with stunning charcuterie plates and wines and seafood and pastas. For a filling and cheap lunch / dinner eat at Osteria dell’Orsa.
The city itself is not particularly interesting aside from the fact that its town center is covered with porticos (covered arcarde) so you never have to be in the sun (yes!)
There’s a leaning tower there as well. I believe the Italians are just not that great at building straight towers?
The San Luca church in Bologna is gorgeous. It is on a hill overlooking the city and you can get to it by walking the entire way under 666 arches. I loved the hike up and the views and the church itself was so unique and beautiful on the inside. We have seen a lot of churches in Europe but this one really stood out in my mind. The colour was also really great for a church – not the somber gothic gray but a delightful orange!
Bologna’s university has some interesting lecture rooms. The Anatomical Theater where medicine / dissection was first taught and the reading room were interesting to visit.
Bolognese sauce. Enough said
Tortellini, Tagliatelle, Lasagne, Modena vinegar, pancetta, mortadella, piadinas. SO yummy.
Florence / Cinq Terre / Pisa

Florence is very much like Rome a complete tourist town. It is for good reason though because Florence just has so much heft in western culture. Leonard da Vinci. Michelangelo. GAH!!!
The David at the Galleria Academia was incredible. You have to see it in person. Its just magnificent. How did he make it from a piece of stone?!!
The Duomo is so grand and SO FULL OF TOURISTS.
Every inch of Florence was crawling. The Ponte Vecchio was wall to wall. Plaza Michelangelo has been overtaken by stalls selling tourist kitsch. Still, you can’t not visit Florence because it’s really just that pretty.
I liked the Italian train stations. They were open. The Florence one was open as well. Something nice about them.
Unfortunately we were too tired to drag ourselves to the Uffizi (I even bought tickets) because the Cinq Terre hike killed me. Also we got rained out on the day we were supposed to scoot around Tuscany. HUGE DISAPPOINTMENT.
Eat papperdelle in Florence. YUMMY! with wild boar ragu!
Tuscany is GORGEOUS. Surprise Surprise. Just beautiful landscapes and green.
Florence’s central market has food galore!! You can just spend all day here eating.
Cinq Terre – also OVERRUN. But the hike is magnificent. We stayed in Corniglia – do this to avoid the tourists. We hiked the first two towns, then the next two the next day. We saw met this German couple on the steppes of Cinq Terre (where they grow wine – and have these crazy wine collecting rail cars) who had a dog called the Elo. We wanted one! He was like a cuter chow chow. So fluffy and friendly!!
Cinq Terre – while it is an adult Disneyland – was again gorgeous. I think that is mostly what I have to say about Italy. Overrun but gorgeous. Anyhow, the hike is brutal! You definitely cannot handle it if you’re not ready for some hard core mountain climbing. Seriously. I was down for the count for like a whole day afterwards in Florence.
Eat pesto in Cinq Terre.
The square of miracles was so strange in Pisa. Everything about the square – the buildings, the leaning tower, was just eerie and weird. The leaning tower is worth going up. It feels incredibly strange to be up there. The entire square is just bizarre. I have nothing more to say aside from the fact that while touristy, I would say its worth visiting.
Rome

The term living museum doesn’t define the city of Rome. Every inch of it is covered with something terribly important historically or the starting point of Western civilization. Everyone must come to Rome, it is Rome for heaven sakes! The Vatican, the Coliseum, the Forum, the fountains, the statues the blah blah blah blah. I can just go on and on about it. We spent like 10 days here and it was not enough. We only scratched the surface. Whereas in other cities the small fountains would be a center piece, in Rome it is just the side art to something even grander and larger.
I went out to Tivoli by myself on a day trip to see Hadrian’s Villa and The Villa d’Este. OMFG. Este was mind blowing. The water gardens were out of this world. My favourite garden hands down. Unbelievable!
Roman pizza is the MOST DELICIOUS pizza in the world. Forget the pizza in Naples. Roman square pizza is where it’s at people! the crust is so crispy. We ate so much pizza. Also cacio e pepe spaghetti and pizzas. The cheese is divine.
Naples / Capri

Capri was again very beautiful and obviously for rich people. Do the chair lift up to the top of the mountain in Anacapri for views of the Bay of Naples and the Amalfi Coast. Cold but worth it! It is a great place to enjoy the wonderfully manicured environs and food. The Caprese salad is from here. Fresh mozzarella!
We didn’t do the blue grotto but we didn’t think we were missing too much.
We had heard that Naples was gross and seedy but we actually really enjoyed Naples! The food was fantastic and cheap and it felt really down to earth. It’s definitely not that pretty in comparison to other Italian cities but I think Naples felt really comfortable because a large majority of Italian immigrants are from the south of Italy so these were the loud, vocal, bodacious Italians we are used to who populate NYC’s little Italy. The food also felt much more down to earth and not like the refined dishes from northern Italy. It was all big portions and lots of carbs. Certainly would get uber fat eating in the south of Italy. Naples had some small streets and neighbourhoods that were so very narrow and full of life with all sorts of people going about their day.
Next trip will have to involve scooting around Tuscany, perhaps visiting Portofino and then going to Rome and heading south to see the rest of southern Italy including the Vesuvius, Amalfi and Sicily!

-------

Austria – Wela’s Memory Dump
Posted on: January 6, 2016
Salzburg was very cute. The city itself is tiny but it hits above its weight in name due to it’s prized son the world over knows: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart!
We did a very kitchy but seriously fun Sound of Music tour. The guide was SUPER uppidy for someone who has to take people every day on the same circuit while doing Sound of Music sing-a-longs on the bus. It has been a childhood dream of mine to see where the movie was shot and boy was it amazing! Austria’s mountains are gorgeous. There’s a lot of adventure sports to do in this area but we only had 3 days, not enough to do anything.
The tour guide was also half-American. Maybe that contributed to the uppidy-ness?
The real Maria Von Trapp was not happy with the Hollywood movie. Surprise Surprise.
Salzburg’s Augustiner beer hall was also great! It was in a strange location – like an old monastery – and don’t try to just buy saukerkraut, they want like 12 Euros for it! The meat plates though, those were cheap.
Would be wonderful to come to the Salzburg music festival. We also didnt get a chance to go see the puppet show or attend a concert which I think would be worthwhile if you go to Salzburg!

------

Germany (West) – Wela’s Memory Dump
Posted on: January 6, 2016
The Heidelberg Schloss is incredible. It is also a must visit! The grounds and castle itself was really beautiful and the funicular ride up was great. Aside from that Heidelberg was a quaint and sleepy university town. We ate a lot of schnitzel and brats and other typical German food. We also ended up staying in at our hotel which served good hearty German dishes because we were trying to catch up on work. The hotel I booked was in an area called the Pfaffengrund. The term “Pfaffengrund” is now a stand-in for “staying in bed” (or in our case staying in at the hotel / Airbnb / “home” we are currently occupying).
Germans are a very no fuss kind of peoples. They always mean business and seem to always be serious, no unnecessary niceties unless there’s beer.
We rented an Audi to drive down from Heidelberg to Fussen where the Neuschwanstein and the Hohenschwangau castles were. The Autobahn down to Bavaria was INCREDIBLE. I just couldn’t figure how how they kept the highways SO smooth. Ethan drove up to 180 KM / Hr at one point. No bumps. I was did my best not to say anything but I was scared. But damn that German engineering is just astonishing. Also the entire drive down every couple of minutes there was a sign for a castle. Next time I want to come back and do the Romantic Road! We didn’t have time this time. I want to visit the gazillions of castles littered across Bavaria!
When we finally got to Neuschwanstein, it totally blew away any and all expectations. The lake in front of Hohenschwangau was SO clear – we took out a row boat for a crisp row around the lake. The Hohenschwangau castle was very cute. It was the summer home of King Ludwig II, the “fairytale” / “mad” king as a kid as it belonged to his father King Maximilian. On display was a crust of bread that is over 100 years old! Also lots of scepters and swords etc.  King Ludwig was considered the crazy king but my reading is that mostly he was just gay and people didn’t quite know what to make of it. His patronage of Richard Wagner along with other German artists really has created some of the world’s most fantastical art – including the Neuschwanstein castle itself.
My biggest disappointment was that the viewpoint of Neuschwanstein that gave you the full shot was closed when we were there. I am still upset over that. But in any case the castle itself is unparalleled. I know I’ve said that about a lot of things but seriously this castle is the castle to end all castles. I mean Disney copied this castle! It is unfinished but even in it’s unfinished state it is literally the fairytale castle of all your childhood dreams.
The area of Bavaria that Neuschwanstein is in is SO GORGEOUS. It’s indescribable the views from the two castles. I cannot rave enough about the natural beauty of Bavaria! We will be back Bavaria!!!
Wagner’s Bridal Chorus – the one everyone walks down the aisle to – comes from the opera Lohengrin which inspired the Mad King to build the fantastical Neuschwanstein.
Lots of Swan imagery around the castle – a symbol of the Bavarian royal family.
We missed Oktoberfest but Munich was still incredible. Ethan did a Hitler’s third reich tour which I opted out of. It made me too sad and I couldn’t stomach it to do it. Munich itself is a very clean livable friendly and open city. I was blown away by how trusting they were of everyone. Over a million people and the public transit system was entire honour based. No guards, no swipes, just buy your own ticket and take your own bus/train/tram etc.
Munich had some really pretty old German buildings but mostly it is just a great lifestyle place. Everything worked, there was great food and had a very friendly atmosphere.
The food at the Viktualienmarkt is SO YUMMY. Soups, brats, grilled, roasted meats – eat your heart out baby! And all open air. Fresh fruits, cheese, jams, and on and on and on. Even amazing seafood!
Highlight in Munich was of course the beer-halls. Hofbrauhaus was so lively and SO German with big apple strudels (not that yummy there, eat it somewhere else) and of course HUGE beers. Ethan had a blast, there was a four piece band and we hung out with some Germans who were definitely not into having Syrian refugees come.
Definitely a totally different perspective from Ethan’s well traveled young Third Reich tour guide who shows the burdens of younger generation of Germans who still feel guilty over the Holocaust and feel the need to repent and accept refugees.
When I went to Germany in 2006 for the world cup to visit my good friend Sam (hi Sam!) he said it still made his mother uncomfortable to see large German pride displays – they’re actually scared of their own flag because of the baggage that comes with it. Side political note – this is NOT how the Japanese feel over their massacre of the Chinese, Koreans and other South East Asian countries during the war. Just saying. Some of us are still awaiting a proper apologies. Ok – sorry about that deeply ingrained political tangent. Anyways.. the burden they carry is truly heavy and you can feel it when you visit Munich where Hitler got his start – actually at the Hofbrauhaus.
We also went to the Augustiner beer hall. That place was also incredibly old but we went really late and didnt get to eat any food but I definitely had already eaten a ton of schnitzel and pork knuckle etc etc to last me a few months at that point.
The same open cafeteria format can be found at the eatery in the English Garden park! The Chinese pagoda there is not Chinese at all. It is a German’s idea of what a Chinese pagoda is, but it is obviously not Chinese. Haha.
The surfing in English Garden was really cool to watch.
Next time, Oktoberfest!

------

Luxembourg – Wela’s Memory Dump
Posted on: January 6, 2016
Luxurious is a good way to call Luxembourg City. Even the clouds were round and luxurious. Simple cafes serve 5 star meals.
We had a wonderful time walking around and eating snacks. The city itself is compact with a beautiful valley which had a nice park. There were some really nice old European buildings. Everyone seemed rich.
The city has some beautiful walls / fortifications which you can go into on a walking tour. We explored them on our own.
We were lucky enough to catch the Luxembourg City annual fair called Schueberfouer. It has been running for 675 years! It had everything you would want at a fair – carnival games, vomit inducing spinny rides, hearty German sausages, apple pies, cotton candy, popcorn etc. etc. The city ran free buses to and from the fair (yes free!). Ethan went on a huge spinny ride after eating a bratwurst. I told him it was a bad idea but he did it anyway. When he got off he was almost going to puke but didn’t. Carnival rides and junk food is not a good combination.

-------

Uruguay – Wela’s Memory Dump
Posted on: February 17, 2016
We did the mandatory day trip to Sacramento de Colonia from Buenos Aires. I would kind of consider it a flop.
Dad wanted to go so we had to make the journey. Probably don’t need to come back to Uruguay. We read a lot about how it is the most developed South American country and is very small and liberal etc etc but Sacramento was a disappointment.
This is likely due to the fact that we have been to way cuter colonial towns. I mean the town was cute but it wasn’t THAT cute. There are some nice boutique hotels and some fancy restaurants but aside from that nothing stood out.
The cost was unbelievably high to do this trip. The ferry over was ludicrously priced. There’s a big discount for booking ahead but sometimes you cannot make that determination of whether you will go. I had told dad that friends told us it wasn’t worth going to for such an expensive price tag (he ended up paying almost CAD$600 for the three of us to do the return trip) but he wanted to go. Perhaps his thinking was that he will never go back to Uruguay again. I guess I can understand that.
In town the restaurants were ludicrously priced and the food was NOT good in comparison to the fantastic and cheap food in BA.
It was hot and the water was still black. Not much more to say, didn’t leave any sort of lasting or good impression.

--------

Argentina – Wela’s Memory Dump
Posted on: February 15, 2016
Argentina is also quite orderly but not as orderly as Chile. It is better than Brazil in terms of the overall development for the population. In Chile we saw the same problems in North America where while most people seem to have a higher standard of living but things were very expensive which also inevitably leaves a segment of the population in poverty. In Argentina, things are very affordable and the standard is quite high and the wealth gap between the rich and poor is not as obvious.
Argentina is the love child of a Spanish and an Italian person. I am was blown away by how very Italian Argentina is; everything from the availability of calamari to the presence of the bidet in hotels, Argentina is definitely equal parts Italian and Spanish.
This is perhaps also why Argentina has defaulted several times on it’s sovereign debt. Unlike it’s neighbor – the very German influenced Chile with it’s industriousness – Argentinians definitely seem rather to pursue enjoying life than working. The schedule here is Spanish with siesta hours being taken seriously. Dinner starts at 9PM and mothers are out with their babies until the wee hours of the evening.
The Argentine Parilla is a huge ass slab of assorted meats and offal and sausages that get served to you on a flat-iron sizzling plate with hot coals underneath. While good to try once or twice, it is very hit and miss whether you get a good combination and sometimes you wind up with only one meat that is good while the rest is just ok.
Mendoza

I don’t have much to say because our time here got cut short by three days. We stayed outside of Mendoza in Lujan de Cuyo, a smaller town closer to the vineyards. The town was fine but not much to say. The area is pretty but also not as spectacular as I thought it would be. I think I just had too strong of a desire to bike around beautiful vineyards but that never happened because the roads were not really bike paths. Maybe I will have to try again in Napa Valley or the Okanagan or somewhere in France.
We did a 5 hour wine tasting lunch at Ruca Malen – one of the smaller wineries. It was interesting to see how wine is made and aged and the setting was really beautiful here. The meal itself was nice but not really THAT spectacular for the expensive price tag. I think living in NYC really spoils you when it comes to unrealistic expectations of food when you pay a lot of money. The lunch was very memorable because the three of us had a great time chatting and we learned some interesting stories from my dad but the food itself was not the best I’ve had. The atmosphere was wonderful though.
It was a miracle we actually got to Mendoza. According to everyone we talked to, the Chile to Argentina border over the Andes was actually closed every day of that week except for the day we traveled. There had been apparently a huge snow storm in the Andes and so they had closed the border. The only reason we traveled that day was because we couldn’t get tickets for any other day after we decided to stay another night in Santiago. We ended up staying three extra nights in Santiago and in a weird turn of events it just so happened that we wouldn’t have been able to leave sooner even if we wanted to. Chile was just not willing to let us go! The drive in the Andes was epic, but not the most epic, like Bolivia was. The switchbacks were beautiful but I failed to get a photo. The high altitude did burst our bus window though!
Once we crossed the border from Chile to Argentina, we were coming down from the Andes when the bus window in the row in front of my dad’s seat literally burst open. This of course proceeded to rain glass shards on everyone. The most hurt was the couple in the seat where the window was. Either the pressure or the glass made her ear bleed. Dad was thankfully ok but glass was everywhere. Ethan and I also had little glass shards rain on us but we weren’t really hurt. This was another event in the series of unfortunate events that happened to dad. His trip was feeling a little like a page out of Lemony Snicket’s books!
Mendoza had comfortable weather. Apparently this was lucky because normally Mendoza is hot as hell. 35 degrees in the summer! This is a reason why it’s great for grape going. Hot and dry so they can control the amount of water the grapes get. Apparently this year the weather was bad though because there had been a lot of rain which is bad for the grapes. In Mendoza city proper there are canals for them to control the amount of water from the Andes but the heavy rains are a problem for the grapes.
Mendoza has a huge park called San Martin which was full of people exercising and enjoying the relative cool-ness of the park in the early morning. I can see this park as being an oasis for the people to escape the hot weather. The park has a beautiful set of gates from the people who made the Buckingham Palace gates and it also has a beautiful four rivers water fountain that is pretty much a copy of the one in Rome. Everything that is European is just basically a copy of Rome.
The Italian influence in Argentina seems to be huge. The streets of Mendoza really reminded me of Italy. I was surprised by the huge Italian component. They even have huge public garbage bins on the street like in Florence.
Iguazu

A South American highlight and a must, we spent two days here so we can see both the Brazil side of the falls as well as the Argentina side. Both sides are must visit because each side gives different views. Argentina’s side is much more interactive. You get very close to the falls and the park is very extensive with several trails for hiking as well as a train that takes you right up to Devil’s Throat. The raccoon like coati animals are everywhere and will viciously come snatch your food so beware!
We did the boat ride on the Argentina side. Best $20 we spent. The speedboat drives you right up to the falls and you get soaking wet. You definitely need a whole day on the Argentina side if you want to take your time on the paths. We were a bit rushed because we didn’t get out of the hotel early enough. The bus from Puerto Iguazu drops you off at the entrance of the falls but then you have to ride a train to Devil’s throat so it all took a long time. Better to bring food next time as the only option inside the park on the trails are Subway sandwiches. The service is snail paced and the ingredients are not great. There is some other food available but it’s not the best.
The buses to and from both sides were a little difficult to figure out but we made it work. On the Argentina side the town is called Puerto Iguazu and you need to take a bus that takes you to the Iguazu national park. On the Brazil side there are several things to note. First, the local buses can take you from Puerto Iguazu across the border to the large Brazilian town of Foz do Iguacu. Don’t get confused because this is the town, not the actual national park. To get to the national park you actually have to transfer buses (unless you buy a bus ticket that goes directly from Puerto Iguazu to the Cataratas do Iguacu park entrance). Luckily the buses are flexible with taking Pesos or Reals.
This area feels VERY Brazilian. It is rain-forest and wild animals and hot and humid. The quintessential image of Brazil. The Argentine side felt like Brazil.
Two words: POR KILOS! That and Argentinian Parillas equals MEAT MEAT MEAT. This is the home of the world’s most carnivorous diet!
The feel of the parks on the Brazilian side and the Argentinian sides are a bit different. The Brazilian side seems more luxurious / well built but the Argentinian side is a lot bigger and more to do. Brazil’s panoramic views are incredible though.
Turns out you don’t even need a Brazilian visa to go visit the falls if it’s a day trip. The bus takes you to the border, Argentina stamps you out and you’re merrily on your way. There was no stamp to enter Brazil. Same thing on the way back. Turns out that’s a pretty nice loop-hole. But, also it was very easy to get a Brazilian visa here. My dad got one the next day – WAY less of a hassle than getting one in New York.
We were also told that the water isn’t always brown. Apparently in the fall (August) the water is white. I would love to see the falls when the water is white!
Buenos Aires

Definitely the most beautiful South American city architecturally. There are quite a few old Italian/Spanish colonial buildings are just gorgeous. The streets are very wide, with trees and the vibe is very relaxed and the summer is glorious. Hot, but beautiful sunshine.
The Italian influence is on full display here. The walking the San Telmo area was pretty much walking in Italy. The city is full of beautiful theaters, one of which is now a library – the El Alteneo. The most beautiful building I have seen in South America is BA’s Water Company Palace; a water pumping station of all things! It is decorated with Royal Doulton iridescent ceramic tiles!
BA definitely lives up to the hype. On first glance it seems kind of a boring place to visit for the lack of obvious tourist sites but given that we gave ourselves two weeks here, it has allowed us to soak up the culture here and the feel is just wonderful. It is the best parts of Europe with a South American price tag.
Two words: THE STEAKS. Holy moly is this not over-blown. The meat here is fantastic and SO SO SO cheap. You can eat such amazing food for very little. They Portenos understand the meaning of la dolce vida. The shopping is great. The parks are large and airy. The Art is gorgeous and the food is glorious. What more could you want out of life?
Portenos talk with their hands – that is their Italian side.
Playing polo was super interesting but tiring. You have a lot to do – control the horse, hold the whip, gallop the horse, hold the incredibly heavy mallet, swing it at the ball, etc etc. Overall a great experience though. I think I would’ve been much less miserable had it not been 35 degrees and in the sun.
TANGO! Such a romantic, sexy, passionate dance. It all made sense after the Tango show, why this place is the love child of Spain and Italy. The heat and emotion is palpable. The dancing is so beautiful both technically and artistically. We saw the show at Tango Porteno. It seemed the only reasonably priced show, the others are quite expensive. After the show, I was convinced that this now overtook the best $25 bucks we’ve spent.
The residential streets are full of HUGE poops. I guess people don’t pick up after their dogs. It’s gross and really disconcerting and such a pity for an otherwise glorious city.
The Chinatown here is clean and awesome and kitchy and has AMAZING Chinese vegetables! Heaven!
When it rains, it floods. Like end of days rain and flooding in the streets. An awesome sight to behold.
The water in the delta is black and gross. It is too bad because if it were not black it would be quite beautiful.
The Recoleta Cemetery is a weird tourist attraction but it is hauntingly beautiful and a must visit. The National Library is gross on the inside but really interesting on the outside. The floralis generica is gorgeous. We did the Museum of Fine Arts which was really nice with some wonderful Argentine painters as well as a Picasso and Stuck’s Bethsheba!
The KFC at the Palermo Alto mall served Coke products. Weird.
The shopping in Buenos Aires is fantastic. Too bad I am horrible at shopping. I can see the potential yet I have no idea what to buy. It is a pity because I can think of many friends who would relish in the shopping whereas I am just lost.
Buenos Aires is HOT as hell. It’s been consistently 35 degrees. The strange thing is it’s a bit of a pressure valve. You will get two days of 35 and then one day of 38 which means you are sweating bullets just by being awake and then boom – HUGE rain storm to cool it all down. This cycle has happened three times during the two weeks we were here. After the rains the temperature is wonderful.
The glazed croissants here called media-lunas (half-moons) are SO yummy.
The steaks here don’t get cooked very evenly. Within the same steak you can get a range from well done to medium. I believe it’s the slow cooking method using wood fire only that makes it cook kind of unevenly. Delicious but strange. Also when you order a medium or a well done, you can’t be certain how it will come. The well dones are never as well done as you’d like and the medium is never as rare as you’d like.
Ethan and I had a difficult time in BA strangely because we both enjoyed it so much. Being that we were here for two weeks it was difficult because it was like being home in NYC but without two key elements: no friends and no job. While I love the cultural aspects of the city as well as the architecture and Art, he loves that the city is great for partying and going out. Except at home, I would have girlfriends to share culture with and he would have guy friends to party with. Also since we are both not working during the day, there’s a lot of time to spare but neither of us really want to go do what the other person wants. His involves a lot of drinking and being in the heat, mine involves a lot of walking around and looking at things. Fighting ensues. As a result of his feeling like he is trapped here and that everything is too planned, he decided to book us to go to Tonga next week from New Zealand. Yea. That happened. I am happy that he has at least finally done something about his own travel satisfaction as opposed to just whining about it and not doing anything!

-----

Some Thoughts on Travel Safety
Posted on: January 28, 2016
Thus far, we have been on the road for 6 months and Ethan and I have been pretty lucky that we haven’t had anything major happen. Knock on wood we can stay safe for the second half of our journey. Unfortunately for dad, he was targeted and robbed right under a security camera. I will relay what happened and some thoughts on the matter.

After Ethan and dad picked up their bags from storage, they were making their way back to the Alameda bus station (Santiago, Chile) so that we could catch our overnight bus to Mendoza. It was at night time and there were a lot of people in the area. Ethan said that a woman had come up to him to say that there was bird poop on him. He looked and there was black stuff and she handed him a paper and water to help him wipe it off. They then did the same thing to dad. Dad said he felt something was off because they were really insistent, the woman said there was bird poop on his back and coaxed him into putting his bag down. It took seconds from when the bag left his body when he put it down to the bag disappearing. A witness said a man had made off with the bag. The crime was done within seconds and everything was gone. Luckily his passport and wallet were on him so those were safe but his computer, notebooks, some clothes and his sense of security was completely shattered.

It seems to me from this incident several lessons can be learned which Ethan and I practice but forget that other travelers do not.

Hedge your bets – split up your valuables.
Black is not a good coloured bag. The criminals dropped another black bag on the ground as a decoy because dad’s bag was black.
These people are professionals. Unfortunately dad stood out quite a bit as obviously easy pickings – he looked like a person who doesn’t travel rough. His backpack in hindsight just looks like it’s packed full of valuables.
Your bag should never under zero circumstances leave your body.
Sadly I was not with them – I had heard of this scam before and maybe could have prevented it but sometimes these things happen so fast and is unavoidable.
Other tips we have learned – don’t put your bag overhead on long bus rides – things will get easily snatched; watch the driver close the under-hold so people cannot steal your bag from under the bus while you’ve gone up to take a seat; always have a strap of the bag anchored to your body if you are sitting somewhere or sitting on a long bus ride.
I have had a couple of friends have travel incidents: friend’s iphone got robbed in Barcelona; friend’s mom’s necklace snatched by a man on a bike in Vietnam; friend was even pepper sprayed in Millwoods while the robber tried to take her laptop/bag. Shit happens. Life happens. We can only do so much to try to prevent it but sometimes these things are going to happen regardless.
You may not do this but your parents might – they are used to traveling in a time when bank access was not so readily available. Tell them NOT to bring tons of cash in their bags – they should just factor in the ATM withdrawal fees into their travel budget. Walking around with tons of cash is just not safe.
If worse case scenario you are in a stick up – let go of your things! Your physical safety is the most important. Stuff is stuff and losing stuff sucks but you don’t want to trade your physical safety for stuff.
Always be vigilant, especially at night and in crowded places. It doesn’t matter if you’re in Stockholm or Nairobi, you can be targeted anywhere.
Going out into the world involves risks. This can happen to anyone and really shakes up your view of humanity. It is just so bad that the few have to ruin it for the rest of us. But generally people everywhere just want to do good and we have witnessed this for 6 months and I know will continue to witness it for another six. All we can do is try our best to be the best person we personally can be and work towards a better world.

---------

Chile – Wela’s Memory Dump
Posted on: January 19, 2016
The North of Chile is one gigantic desert. We took a 24 hour bus ride down from San Pedro de Atacama and it was just desert the entire way.
Northern Chileans were not very nice. Everyone tried to scam us. Taxi drivers would tell us one price and ask for another upon arrival. The hotel staff tried to say that the price of three nights was really only one night. Left us with a really bad taste in our mouths but maybe we just ran out of travel karma for a couple of days.
Chileans speak really fast Spanish and are hard to understand. Their accent is also bizarre. They also LOVE to correct your Spanish. Everyone corrects your Spanish. This is actually pretty good for us because we are learning but we can see why the Mexican couple on our Uyuni tour spoke badly of Chile. When you’re from Mexico – and when you are a HUGE country and when your Spanish is considered Latin American standard, it must confound you to no end that some Chilean is telling you that you are speaking your own language incorrectly!
Chile is pretty much Europe. Thus far you cannot even really tell you’re in Latin America. The people look white. The food is white. It’s just Europe.
While Chile is pretty much Europe, it still has a ton of stray dogs – like all developing countries – and unlike in Europe. Though Europe had some.. not nearly as many.
According to our Puerto Varas host Malva, Chileans are kind of like Canadians – a bit cold at first but then life long friends. They like to be independent and really don’t want hand outs. This is why Chileans seem not as nice at first. They also look down on the indigenous and want to be like Europe and detest their neighbours the Argentinians!
Southern Chile is pretty much Canada weather.
Chileans are fairly proud and their flag is seen everywhere.
Chile is very isolated geographically with the south pole on the bottom, a huge desert at the top, ocean on one side and mountains on the other. Hence their independence, their pull themselves up by the bootstraps and their need for self sufficiency. Strangely they are actually more open to the outside world than Argentinians (according to Chileans).
Unlike the other South American countries we have been to, the Chilean police – the Carabineros – are very obvious and strong. Legacy of Pinochets regime, these are actually military police. Further to this, the presence of the Chilean government can be felt – this is the same as in Canada.
Unfortunately Santiago has largely been ruined by my dad’s backpack getting robbed.
Chile is the least diverse country we have been to yet in South America – probably due to isolation. Chile has also been interesting because it is so uninteresting and downright bland – in that it does not exhibit really any signs of South America. It is an orderly society – so it would seem – south of the Atacama desert.
Chileans are the least “hispanic” of all the South American countries. It is likely due to Pinchoet’s regime where people are used to following the rules. They seem to take things more seriously and everything you purchase they give you a receipt. Even if you pay $0.20 to go to a public bathroom they hand you a receipt. It is completely the opposite of what you would expect of South America which people generally think of as a bit disorganized but very warm and kind of a fluid society.
Examples of the orderliness of Chileans abound: if you bought a bus ticket for a certain time, they would rather let the earlier bus leave with empty seats instead of let you get on the earlier bus. If you want to get security camera footage from the police, you have to go through a long and orderly court process.
Here you feel like it is quite like North America – the kind of somewhat rigid and unnecessary bureaucracy that comes with an orderly society. Ironic that it is here of all places that we got robbed. Perhaps it is because there was a sense of false security in the orderliness.
Iquique

First thing you notice upon arriving from Bolivia is that the roads are smooth. Wow! the miracle of first world roads!
Not much to see or do here. We went paragliding – probably the only thing that’s fun here. It was a fantastic experience here. The combination of factors makes it a great place to paraglide. Take off was easy and the flight was long. We met a lost 60 year old Dutch guy who worked for Puero Velo the paragliding company. He was really fun to talk to and in love with a Chilean woman. I guess we all eventually find our natural homes.
The other fun thing to visit here was the recreation of the Esmeralda Chilean Navy ship from the 1855 war of the Pacific. You got to see all the cabins of the shipmates and the kitchen and living quarters. The guide talked super fast in Spanish so we missed a lot of stuff but the boat itself is very pretty and fun to go onto.
Bolivians are pretty bitter about having lost their access to the Pacific coast to Chile in the War of the Pacific (Saltpetre War). Chile seems to have done pretty well since they got Iquique from Peru and cut Bolivia off from the Pacific coast. Apparently Bolivia has an agreement with Argentina and has access to their water way.
Weather was pretty balmy on the coast which was nice.
San Pedro de Atacama

Another purely tourist town. Really great food at a restaurant called Adobe as well as La Casona. Fantastic place to star gaze. I think having just come from the Uyuni desert we were kind of tired of being in the desert so we really didn’t get up to much.
The town of San Pedro itself with its adobe buildings is incredibly cute. Really great to wander around and look into the stores. It is an expensive tourist town but would have been a delight to arrive to after Uyuni. It is just much more European and prettier in every way than Uyuni.
Our star gazing tour was great. We got to see and learn a lot of constellations through the magical telescope. There was sausages and hot chocolate – so first world! There were things that are not visible to us in the southern hemisphere and because the star culture comes from Greece everything is viewed backwards in the south. The moon was definitely the most epic as well as Sirius which looked like a diamond – we took a photo of the moon through the telescope and you can see it’s craters!
Don’t know why but there were really shady characters lurking around at night. Our host in Puerto Varas says it’s because there’s a lot of drinking and people are just drunk.
Puerto Varas

Welcome to Germany! the lake district is pretty much a mix of Europe (mostly German) architecture and culture – and Canada like scenery. LOVE IT.
Must eat at the Donde El Gordito – seafood place – even Anthony Bourdain ate here, as well as La Marca an excellent steak restaurant.
Rented a car and drove around the area – breathtaking. Went up the Osorno Volcano and did super fun zip line. The volcano really looks like mount fuji, it towers over the huge ass lake Llanquihue. The driving around was so much fun. The Petrohue waterfalls were turquoise blue – incredible! (due to basalts from the volcanos).
Here buffets are called Tenedor Libre (free fork!)
Our hosts Alex and Malva are fantastic. No better place to stay than the container at Casa Fischer. They help you with everything and Spanish class with Malva is so much fun – she told us that in Chile you can tell a person’s socio economic status by the way they speak their Spanish (pitch and accent). Also that they are happy to adopt English words into their vocab unlike Argentinians who Hispancize English words or try to not use them.
There are these HUGE horseflies in the area apparently only in January. They are large and buzz and are super annoying when you are walking around the lakes and forests. They do bite although you can generally swat them away. They are attracted to dark colours – black and blue so it’s good to avoid wearing those colours.
The weather in the Lake district was very cool – very long days just like Edmonton summer and only warm during the daytime.
We unfortunately ran out of time to go to Fruitllar – which I really wanted to do.
We did get to go to Chiloe – SO fantastic. The island is gorgeous. We saw Penguins and seals, had Curanto (seafood and meat buried in the earth with hot rocks on top to cook it) saw the palafito stilt houses and went to a couple of the UNESCO world heritage wooden churches. They were extremely cute – one even had wooden pillars painted in marble patterns!
Ethan surprised me with a stay for my birthday at Ocio resort on the bank facing Castro (the main city in Chiloe). The hotel is GORGEOUS and the views from the Wind Suite (Viento) are unbelievable and the stay was so luxurious. Definitely a splash out but so great, they even gave us knitted booties made from the wool of the sheeps on the island.
Ethan really loved the very salt of the earth feel of the towns on Chiloe – the traditional fishing village feel of the towns were palpable. I imagine Nantucket to be very much like this.
Santiago / Valparaiso

Santiago is a fairly miscellaneous city. It is quite clean and organized for South America. La Moneda is worth seeing – a public art and cultural space under the Presidential palace. Bellavista is a nice neighbhourhood with great restaurants. Ethan really enjoyed the human rights museum as well as the Pre-Columbian Museum.
Valpo was fine – not sure what all the fuss is about. I think it’s cause we’ve been to more interesting places in South America. It’s ascensores are cool but not as awesome as La Paz’s teleferico. It’s colourful tin houses are cool but Batman Alley was cooler. I think it was just overrated because everyone kept telling us how awesome it is. Instead it was just fine. Interesting for Chile but not the most interesting overall. It also smelt of pee and poop. A great view can be had from the restaurant called Cuarto Viento at the last ascensore at the end of town.
My dad’s backpack got robbed from him in Santiago near the Alameda bus terminal. This has been a traumatic experience. I will discuss this in another post. Because of it we had to change our plans stay behind an extra 3 nights in Santiago very begrudgingly and causing all sorts of havoc.
Aside from that I don’t have much more to say about the kind of miscellaneous-ness of Santiago. The Bella Vista area is nice with some great restaurants. There are parts of it that are incredibly modern – pretty much looks like Toronto with lots of glass and steel buildings.
Our Airbnb host was phenomenal. He helped us go to the police station and waited with us. Picked us up and dropped us off. I overall really enjoyed the kind of very frank and somewhat clinical attitudes of the people. I can see it coming from the German influence. Definitely Southern Chile was the best part. I don’t need to come back to Santiago.
 

-------

Bolivia – Wela’s Memory Dump
Posted on: January 19, 2016
Bolivia. What an incredible country. It is definitely the most indigenous country we have been to / will go to in South America. It’s entire country is overwhelmingly indigenous in ethnicity (something like 70%) and here you can definitely feel the difference.
I was obsessed with the bowler hat wearing squat and rotund Bolivian women. Their hair was so black and so thick and lush and long and always in two long braids. The bowler hats!! just fascinating. And the same kind of ruffly half skirts and holy moly what were they carrying in those large packs strapped to their backs? I still cannot tell. They reminded me of the cupcake dolls from the 90s. Same kind of ruffly skirt.
Bolivians seemed to us a very industrious lot. Cold places seem to inspire industry. People were not lazing around on the beach – no sir – people were always working hard.
Bolivia is a harsh place and a difficult one to travel to because it is quite physically uncomfortable. It is very rewarding though if you do make it there.
The Altiplano which is the area of Bolivia we were in (The high plains) was just that. SO freaking high. The clouds were literally on the ground. The air was so thin that all our packaged toiletries with air inside expanded. No joke. I imagine Mongolia to be kind of like this part of Bolivia.
Llamas!!!
It was never really that warm in Bolivia even though we were there during their summer. You definitely need to always carry with you and ultralight down jacket. The nights are always cold.
Bolivia’s roads are terrible. The most bumpy ass roads you will ever have to endure.
Evo Morales – Bolivia’s populist President – is omnipresent. His face is in the graffiti; there are Si Evo signs everywhere. This may be left over from the 2014 Presidential election but people seem to really like his socialist reform policies. He dislikes fast food so much that McDonald’s left the country (though there are terrible tasting Burger Kings). He seems to be full of rhetoric and is credited with lifting people out of poverty. They call him Evito!
I am sad we didn’t get to visit Tiwanaku, the main site of the Aymara natives of the area near Lake Titcaca and La Paz. I think it would have been great. That and the Valle de la Luna – though maybe we had enough weird rock formations to look at even within La Paz. Also the world’s highest golf course. Didn’t visit.
Apparently a new law went into effect whereby Evo Morales has not mandated a second indigenous language to be taught to all Bolivians. You had to get a certificate to say you could speak another language. The main one in Sucre was Quecha and because of the new law advertisements for Quecha classes was just as dominant as classes for Ingles.
Due to the high altitude or just weirdness of Bolivia, my phone went haywire twice. Once completely and another time just kind of fizzy. I had it repaired in Sucre for like 6 bucks. Worked like new and literally was a reboot. It never occurs to you that these sorts of things can happen. I was told that the battery on cellphones will literally expand upon reaching Bolivia altitude. Whao! Also apparently water boils at a lower temperature in La Paz!
Sucre

When we landed in Santa Cruz – we had to wait for our flight to Sucre. Two things we noticed were: (1) Cinnabon (oh so yummy) and (2) Amish people! It was seriously weird to see Pennsylvania Dutch Country Amish people in Bolivia. We had a fantastic going to the civil war re-enactment  and touring Amish country in Pennsylvania but seriously didn’t think we’d see them in Bolivia of all places.
Our plane landing in Sucre was seriously harrowing. Thunder bolts and lightening, very very frightening! I literally thought to myself I am going to die in Bolivia but then we didnt die and landed. Phew. Can’t blame the pilot.. it was seriously horrific conditions.
The altitude is super high here so the first night I found it hard to breathe but adjusted quite quickly. I think the mate the coca made me a bit ill. Last time in Peru I drank it up and kept drinking. This time I found it just made me a bit ill so I didn’t keep drinking it.
Sucre has a tiny but cute colonial center. I doubt we will ever go back to Sucre but we had a relaxing stay. We took Spanish classes from Open Spanish on Potosi street with a really lively girl named Shirley. These classes were such a riot for us and we just had so much fun getting to know her and to know Bolivia. Very fond memories of Shirley and the school (even though it was pretty run down). The owner Gonzales was an awkward but nice fellow, super thin and tall. His dog Lucas was the best though – an English Sheepdog straight out of the Little Mermaid. It was very friendly (and on the last day took a huge pee in the yard) but oh so cute.
Sucre’s market was the one I had been looking for! Real fresh veggies! Allowed me to make wonderful Christmas brunch and dinner. We cooked pretty much exclusively here. Chocolates Para Ti is also a must. Fantastic chocolate covered fruit kebabs!
There’s an uber cheap fried chicken place on Calvo street just south of the main Plaza that was really yummy.
Sucre is known as the white city but it was more orange than white.
The place we stayed at La Selenita was great. The room was of average comfort but the caretaker there Juan was just so amazing attending to every need. The kitchen was functional for cooking so we just spent the better part of the week at home cooking and reading and eating and doing Spanish class. It was a quiet Christmas which I was happy for – Ethan was sad we weren’t in Brazil for this. La Selenita also had fresh jams daily and fresh fruit juice. It was so luxurious!
Bolivian cuisine is nothing to speak of. We tried it once and decided we would forego eating Bolivian food. Just a lot of chicken and spiciness. The soups are always good though – especially mountainous and cold countries – they always have soup.
Uyuni

The bus ride from Sucre to Potosi was uneventful. Potosi looked sad and depressing – its claim to fame their horrific conditioned silver mine. The mountain apparently had a trickle of molten silver running down it which started the silver rush and is now just a desolate sad place. It’s literally the highest city in the world I believe. Life here seems harsh and just depressing.
From Potosi to Uyuni the scenery got weirder and weirder – literally looked like we were looking out onto Mars. Desolate. Red. Rocky. Incredible.
Uyuni itself is a lot more robust than imagined. There’s far more streets and the distances longer than you would think. It’s in the middle of the desert but there’s lots of expats here to cater to a really growing tourism industry.
Hands down you have to stay at La Petite Porte. It is pretty booked up though. The other hotels here charge you exorbitant prices for much less comfort. Whilst the toilet being kind of open at Le Petite Porte is a bit uncomfortable, it’s nothing a couple can’t endure for a day or two. The breakfast here was really great as well.
We ate two dinners at the Minuteman Pizza restaurant inside the Tonito Hotel. This is a pizza shop that actually has spectacular pizza on account of where it is. The best were the nachos. By god! Everywhere in the world tries to sell you nachos – even in Brazil – but it’s all just wrong! the salsa is wrong, the beef is wrong, the chips – dont even get me started. But nachos are American and this guy is from Boston so praise the lord the nachos were a god send! We saw no reason in going anywhere else. We ate here the night we landed and ate here the night we came back from the Uyuni tour. YESSS.
Uyuni is definitely just a tourist town, not much else besides abandoned train parts as the town center piece. Strangely lots of Asians here. You cannot help but come here before and after the Salt Flats tour so might as well make the most of it. It was a lot better than we had thought it would be with a lot better infrastructure. It also looks like it’s only going to get better. The night we came back from our tour we had to stay at the Jardines hotel because La Petite Porte was booked (boo) and the hotel itself was bad. But the new restaurant attached to it was good and newly opened. The breakfast was yummy – the bacon was really yummy. The new manager there is a really cool guy named Tony who we got to talking to. He’s half Bolivian half French, trained in France and lived in New York – really international kind of guy. He had just gotten to Uyuni to help manage this restaurant. You can tell he takes pride in his food. He gave us recommendations for La Paz but I am pretty sure once his venture gets going the food will be great. With the breakfast you can already tell there will be some flair.
Another roadside open bbq meal. This time we believe it lead to Ethan losing his wedding band. His hands were greasy and so he thinks he wiped his ring into a garbage can in Uyuni. Our overnight bus to La Paz was leaving so he didn’t have much time to go look for the ring once we discovered it gone but he definitely did dig in those garbage cans around the little park near the Jardines hotel. Eww. Sigh.
Salar Uyuni and Eduardo Avaroa Reserve

If there ever was an “EPIC” Journey it is this one. Three full days in a 4×4 driving on the moon and Mars. Words cannot describe the kind of life altering experience being on the Salar and in the Reserve is. You just have to do it.
The journey is incredibly hard. It is bumpy. It is SO DRY and it is SO FREAKING DUSTY. Just dust penetrating all your orifices. The food was not good. Our driver Edwin was always missing (as visto Edwin?) but who can blame him? We spent New Years Eve at a salt hotel. The Salar itself is just incredible – unbroken and so flat – just gorgeous. The random flamboyances of flamingos. The desert foxes. The weird rock formations. The salt piles. The seriously Dali-esque everything (not just the Dali Desert) – most of all Incahuasi the bizarro cactus prehistoric under-water – but now exposed Island. What an experience. Such a slog but so very worth it. It’s unbelievable to me that these guides just drive 16 hours a day. We got up at 4 am both mornings and it was just driving driving. Again, nothing to say aside from the fact that the journey was epic.
We found 3 inukshuks and we built another one on the salt falts!!
There was no water – the rain had come late. GRR global warming! This gives us an excuse to come back to see it when there’s water!
We stopped to have a wonderful lunch in a lush valley on our way back to Uyuni. The water was so clear. There were llamas close by. It was always such a delight when there was water in the desert. The thermal pool was also great – I only dipped my feet but Ethan went for a swim and said it was wonderful. Just naturally warm water bubbling forth from the ground.
Cannot recommend this enough. It’s brutal but really very worth it. Definitely not for the faint of constitution though!
We were on the tour with a lesbian Mexican couple (one was probably 22ish, the other 30) from Durango, and a couple who live in Santiago but the guy was from Bolivia and the woman was from Medellin – both grad students. We could never tell if the couple was having fun but they were very in love so we called them the Amantes.
La Paz / El Alto / Titicaca

What a fantastically situated city. Right in the bowl of the mountains. The MiTeleferico cable car rides is a must – Green line to see the rich, red line to see the poor. La Paz was just so interesting in every way.
We stayed in Sopacachi – the upper middle class neighbourhood. Ate twice at Chez Moustache – probably the most divine French restaurant in Latin America – no joke. Sopacahi had character. It’s not bland like the rich neighbourhood in the south we visited. It was La Paz but definitely not as uncomfortable.
Walking in La Paz sucks because it’s so vertical and hilly and you’re out of breath due to the altitude.
We may be missing something but we weren’t quite sure why the Calle de Brujas (Witch’s Market) is such a big deal when it’s like two stalls who sell llama fetuses. We are scared we had a “National Museum” moment and didn’t go to the right place.
Cycling the death road was epic. I am shocked I did it and didn’t die – It was very very dangerous. Just two weeks earlier some Italian man jumped his bike and plunged to his death. I was just glad both Ethan and I survived unscathed. I spent the whole time breaking and it was so incredibly bumpy but I am very proud of myself for having done it. The ride was unbelievably beautiful and rewarding. If you have a little bit of guts you should definitely do it. It’s quite difficult though and there’s definitely no shame in chickening out. The downhill is relentless. Absolutely relentless.
Lake Titicaca was absolutely huge. Copacabana is pretty meh but we stayed at the bizarro Seashell Suite 8 of Hostal Las Olas. That was definitely the most interesting hotel stay thus far on our trip. The fire place there gave Ethan tons to do. The restaurant there is also quite yummy. The hotel had llamas as their form of grass cutting! I tried to go pet one but the male chased me out. A little kid told us pueden morder. Luckily they didn’t moder me!
The lake itself is beautiful. The drive around it on the bus back on the Bolivia side is beautiful. The ride there was horrible. Apparently the indigenous always block up El Alto to prevent traffic into La Paz as a form of protest. As such our bus company had to take us through Peru and back into Bolivia. That’s right – customs on both sides for us. We literally entered Peru for 20 minutes only to exit it on the same day. We have the stamps to prove it.
Isla de Sol was great but we had 40 minutes on the Island. It was probably enough – we got to see the reed boats that apparently sailed all the way to Polynesia! That was really great. That and more bowler hat wearing Bolivian women. Woohoo!
 We hung out with two Aussie girls from Melbourne who tell us there’s a huge Melbourne – Sydney rivalry. They seemed to really dislike Sydney. Too bad we’re not going to Melbourne this time around.
On the ride back our bus drove onto a barge and the barge ferried us across a little gap on Titicaca. Incredible this wooden barge!
Titicaca is HUGE. It looks like the ocean. I was very happy to have gotten to see it. Ethan seemed uninterested but I was really enjoying the landscapes.
La Paz’s cemetery district is like a whole tiny city made up of interesting boxes that are graves that is just open to the world. How fascinating that you can visit your loved ones this way. It is similar in China at the fancy graves boxes we went to to visit Ethan’s aunt and grandparents – except here they’re out in the open. It was really very beautiful.
At the tiny Coca museum in La Paz, I learned that coca was in Coca-Cola for the longest time! Nowadays the leaves are only used for flavouring (.. sure..). The museum also showed the effects of crack cocaine and how the white man took this traditional Andean leaf and made it bad. Edwin our Uyuni tour driver constantly was chewing the leaves. The locals do it all time, kind of like drinking coffee.
The La Paz Sunday market is HUGE. Everything and anything under the sun is sold there. Used cars, electrical parts, food, wool pants, knock offs. Whatever you can dream up, they well it. We read they even sold used medical equipment though we ourselves didn’t see any. We ate various snacks including egg buddies (I think of them as very Hong Kong – those little waffle bits you can get in NYC’s Chinatown), fruits, drinks and fried anchovies. So delicious. We wandered around for a long time. Next time Ethan wants to buy a car at the market (we saw trucks being sold for 5000 Bolivianos so USD800) drive it down through Uyuni to Chile.
The cholitas wrestling was also strange. Lots of shouting and pomp and fun. A lot of female on female kicks and punches and jumping. Seriously lucho libre – like seriously the women fought the men and won. It was incredible.
In La Paz, it is the opposite. The rich live really low in the valley – this is where the weather is nicer – and the poor live in El Alto where it is cold. To the point where the entire plain where Titicaca is on is actually where El Alto is and La Paz sits below. Still it doesn’t take away the fact that the two cities are pretty much one and that it is the world’s highest metropolis.

-----

The Demon
Posted on: September 15, 2016
I still don’t know what I’m doing.

A part of me thinks that by the time you’re into your 30s that somehow you’re supposed to have figured out what it is you’re doing with your life. Yet, another part of me realizes that the older I get, the more I see that people are still just making it up as they go; that an answer to life doesn’t just land on you and that everyone everywhere, no matter how old is still just making it up as they go.

According to George Orwell:

Writing a book is a horrible, exhausting struggle, like a long bout of some painful illness. One would never undertake such a thing if one were not driven on by some demon whom one can neither resist nor understand. For all one knows that demon is simply the same instinct that makes a baby squall for attention. And yet it is also true that one can write nothing readable unless one constantly struggles to efface one’s own personality.

I suppose when I was a lawyer, that demon inside of me was put in a box. It was shut away in some dark corner of my soul and I constantly floated above that bottom layer by occupying my time with daily drudgery. Putting it in a box and storing it in the bottom of my closet made me melancholy. Kind of like the feeling you get when a wonderful vacation is about to come to an end but you can’t bear to let yourself go back to your real life. I went about my days hiding from myself. If I just ignore the low level buzz coming from the deep, I could go on and pretend like everything is ok. However, over time, the demon slowly seeped out of its box. It wanted out, and it was not going to rest until it got out.

So then I let it out.

I wrote a book. I wrote a big book. With lots of pictures. And I wrote it and drew it all by hand. Every day I had a fever. I woke and wrote and drew and went to bed and woke up again to write and draw.

But then the other part of me, the rational, honest good part of me put on the breaks. What are you doing? It asked. Put it back in its place! And so I did and I tried to run again. This time I did better work, I did work that felt somewhat meaningful. But still the demon was not satisfied.

And so I took a trip. A very long trip. A trip that made me stare the demon in the face. And now every-day, I am the demon.

So now I must learn to live with the demon because it is a dark and stormy. It runs around and causes chaos and doesn’t let me have a moment’s rest. It calls me to feed it, to attend to it at every waking moment because it wants my blood, it wants my youth, it wants my sanity and it wants revenge. Every moment I am not thinking about it, or breathing it, or talking about it, or tending to it, it screams for my attention. Just like a baby. Screaming for attention.

And now that I am living the demon, I find myself descending into the madness at an alarming rate. I don’t care for social interaction. I like to draw the blinds. I try to sleep a lot but cannot because my sleep is pierced with its screams.

Somehow I must find a way to balance the two. The sanity and the insanity. I must contain the demon to certain parts of my day and function as a normal human being the other parts. I must learn how to harness its energy in a productive way. I must stare it in the face and tell it that it is not the boss. I must reach towards the light so that I don’t fall perpetually towards the dark.

Being a writer is a strange career choice. There are no rules. There are no boundaries. There are no set hours you have to show up, nor an outfit you have to put on. Every day you wake up and it is a blank page staring at you, and you alone must bear the burden of what happens that day. It is hard not to compare yourself to other writers you hear about. You wonder if you are being productive enough, you wonder if you are creating enough. It is a career where you make up the rules and where success or failure is marked by your accumulation of days and months and years of struggling in the dark.

You spend your hours feeding the demon and you hope that at the end of the day it is satisfied so that there are moments of peace from it and the fever it causes. You keep reaching and reaching through your entire life waiting for the day it leaves. But you know you can never get there, because the moment you do, you too will expire. So you carry it with you as part of who you are and you wake up each day, and you live with your fever, because that is all you can do.

-----

A Lesson in Uncertainty
Posted on: August 1, 2016
It wasn’t until I was standing in my naked living room did it dawn on me that we were really going. After years of dreaming, talking, planning and saving, the day had finally come to leave it all behind. It had been a long time coming.

The idea to go traveling for a year came to me probably not too long after I returned from studying abroad in South East Asia. After meditating in ancient temples, burying my toes in white sand beaches and gorging myself at midnight hawker stalls, it’s not hard to see why returning to my formal banal existence hit me so hard. When I first had the idea, it was nothing more than longing. Sure, everyone talks about quitting their lives and leaving with just a backpack, but so few people actually go. Growing up I had always done what was expected of me. I obeyed my parents, worked hard at school and landed a steady job even before graduation. By every external measure, I should have been happy with the life I built; instead all I could feel was a desperation. The familiar feeling of being trapped crept back into my consciousness and I knew I needed a way out. I applied to law school.

Unlike the improbability of being a world traveler, law school was always certain. As the child of Chinese immigrants, I was taught at a very young age that success could only come from education. While other parents fussed over high-school graduation, my parents found the production laughable. While other parents cried at their kids’ university graduation, my parents gave me a terse “good job.” To them none of these events registered as achievements because there was always even higher education. When it came to what career I should have the “choice” was simple: I was to become either a doctor or a lawyer. “And since you’re uncomfortable with the sight of blood” my dad remarked “you should become a lawyer!”

Even as I applied to law school my feelings toward it were mixed. On the one hand, I knew that my Arts degree was not enough professionally and studying law was the most practical choice. On the other hand, as someone who never wanted to be a lawyer, spending three years slogging through law school seemed simply preposterous. In an attempt to ease my own misgivings, I told myself that after graduation I would immediately enter the Foreign Service. I reasoned that as long as I avoided the realities of lawyering, I could still rise to the top of this uncertainty stew and find a job abroad. Oddly enough, in the maelstrom of deciding whether to even go to law school, I was clear on one thing. If I was going to law school, it would be McGill.

I suppose I could say that I was interested in McGill’s bi-lingual program. Or that it was one of Canada’s best law schools. Instead it was Montreal.

In the summer after Singapore I cleverly devised a way to extend my wanderings by going to Quebec for six weeks. Thanks to the bounty of a Canadian government bursary, a friend and I stuffed our faces with poutine and pork crackling as a guise for learning French culture.

----- 

Ourearthsandwich Prologue
Posted on: July 7, 2016
I don’t quite remember when my love of travel started. Growing up in suburban Edmonton, “going somewhere” meant making the three hour drive to Calgary. Alberta is a big province and Edmonton is so far north that you couldn’t go anywhere without driving for hours and hours.  If you drove for tenhours in Alberta you would still be in… Alberta.

It is strange that despite growing up in such a vast place, I felt like it was too small. Throughout my grade school years, no one knew where my hometown Shanghai was and no one cared to learn. My classmates were content with where they were and never thought about anything more. Edmonton felt small because the people felt small and I wanted something bigger. As far back as I can remember, I was always itching to leave. I dreamt of going to the faraway places because felt desperately trapped by mediocrity. In my youth I was just biding my time, waiting for the day to come when I was old enough to go see the world. When it came time to apply for university, I thought my chance had finally come.  I decided on the journalism program at Carlton and eagerly told my parents that I was going east to Ottawa. “No” they said. “You’re not going to Ottawa.”

I didn’t end up going to Ottawa. I was 17 and my mother said I was too young to move so far away. Instead of running away to the other side of the country, all I did was run away to the other side of town because when I was accepted to the U of A, I gave up on something bigger. Even though I wanted so much to be different from my classmates, I just wasn’t; I was going to the same university and living the same boring life as they were. Contrary to what I thought though, as soon as classes started I found that university was different. I met professors who seemed so worldly and talked to classmates who also wanted to see the world. I dove right into my political science classes and relished in my status as the over-eager first year.

By the time second year rolled around I was well into the swing of university life. The U of A was a whole other world and I was all too happy to live  within its confines. I almost forgot about the outside world when I found out about the Sandy Mactaggart Award. $13,500.00 it said. Full ride for a year in Asia.

Intimidated does not even begin to describe how I felt about applying for the award. As much as I wanted to go see the world the reality was that I had never gone anywhere. The longest time I had been away from home was a week at a high school writing camp and that was still in Alberta. I also felt like I was just not good enough. To me this award was meant for the superstars, the ones who were not only academic achievers but also well-rounded. I was just too ordinary in every way for such an extraordinary award. When I found out that my top-of-the-class friend was also applying I pretty much threw in the towel. He had received the highest GPA in the entire Faculty of Arts the year before which pretty much meant that he was a shoe-in. Since we both believed this award was his for the taking, I decided to have some fun with the application. With nothing to lose and a flair for some creative writing I added a bit of humour to the essays: “How would your host university benefit from your presence?” was the question and “I’d bring my fashion sense” was my answer. To my utter surprise (as well as the surprise of my shoe-in friend), I was awarded the scholarship. Congratulations, the letter said – you are going to Singapore for a year!

The first night in Singapore was hard. I was in a new country on the other side of the world. I had dreamed of this moment for so long but now that reality was here I felt utterly lost. I didn’t have my house, I didn’t have my bed and I certainly didn’t have any friends. Worst of all it was suffocatingly hot. When a tiny salamander crawled up my dorm wall I literally screamed out in fright.  I was full of doubt when I called my parents and as much as I didn’t want to, I bawled on the phone. That evening I fell asleep completely exhausted wondering what I had done to myself.

Strangely, the next morning I woke up with a feeling of peace. The fears from the night before evaporated as I stepped out of my dorm. I didn’t know anyone and no one knew me but somehow it felt great. From that moment on, something changed within me that to this day I still cannot explain. I no longer dreamed of traveling the world – I was actually doing it. The year I spent in Asia changed my life profoundly because it was the first time I traveled extensively. Since that year I had always wanted to travel again but this time do it full-time. Traveling full time was the culmination of waiting to fulfill a dream I had since going to Asia, and this is the story of that journey.

------

Ourearthsandwich Epilogue
Posted on: July 5, 2016
Ourearthsandwich Epilogue

The sound of construction is everywhere. The noise of hammers, saws and steel beams being laid down come through the big windows of the apartment constantly reminding me of my restlessness. It is the day after 4th of July and the sky is full of rain clouds. Yesterday, while others were celebrating with BBQs and fireworks, I mostly moped about in my PJs wondering when the sun would come out. It did finally come out at around 6PM, but by then the day had already escaped me and I was in no mood to party. It has been two weeks since I’ve arrived in Seattle and my bad attitude hasn’t gotten any better. Every morning, I wake up to a perpetually gray sky and every morning I think to myself: what the hell am I doing here?

Seattle is a beautiful city. On a clear day, gorgeous snow-capped mountains are visible from tall buildings downtown. Beside the numerous lakes around the city, her streets are brimming with trees and her coastlines full of sailboats. As far as a city to build a home in, it’s almost impossible to argue against her airy buildings, her clean streets and her laid-back attitude. Yet try as I might, I just don’t like it here. Maybe it just takes more time.

When I first moved to New York, I also deeply despised it. I found it to be uncomfortable in so many ways and that wasn’t even counting the rats. It took me a very long time to get adjusted to life there; over three years to be exact. Strangely, when the time came to leave New York after four years, I was sad to go because I had finally gotten used to living there. It seems like for New York, three years is the magical amount of years where you go from a visitor to a resident. In the eight years that Ethan had been there, he saw three waves of people come and go and only those who made it past year three actually stayed in the city. If it weren’t for our trip, we would still be there now. Instead, here we are in Seattle. A year of running around the world later and we find ourselves amidst the tech construction boom in America’s Pacific Northwest. Amidst lumbersexuals, man-buns, thick rimmed glasses and plaid shirts.

A year ago, I set out on a trip to try to find some answers and a year later I seem to only have more questions. Perhaps that’s just adulthood; an unending tide of questions for which there are no answers and so damnit, you just have to make up your own. When Seattleites wake up, they stare up at the gray sky and they say to themselves “another beautiful day in Seattle”. Tell yourself anything enough and you will eventually believe it.

Just another beautiful day in Seattle.